Creating a Grant and Getting Started...
By: Kayla Brundick 


Digital Humanities requires the creation of grants in order to maintain and create projects. 
Having never created a grant before, I was skeptical about the length of the project and worried that I would not complete the necessary components correctly; however, since I have been working through this process for a few weeks, explanations and examples provided in class have helped to provide more clarification on the process.

In order to begin the grant process, I first created a proposal; an idea of a unique project that hasn’t been previously created in the field of Digital Humanities. 
My proposal introduced the idea of creating a mapping project based on Stephanie Meyer’s latest release, Midnight Sun; an additional novel to the Twilight series entirely from the perspective of Edward Cullen, released on August 4th, 2020. 
Specifically, I will compare the thoughts of both Bella and Edward that describe their journey throughout their complicated romance story on a map that will let Twilight fans trace the story sequentially on a map.
In order to do this, I would need to use a mapping site in order to create the project, such as story maps in order to track the story approprietly. 

[alt](https://kayla-brundick.github.io/Kayla-Brundick1/images/StoryMaps.png] 

[alt](https://kayla-brundick.github.io/Kayla-Brundick1/images/Map.png]

Other mapping projects based on novels are generally from one perspective and narrated by the main character; because I am creating a mapping project based on the perspectives of two main characters, this is what will set my project apart from others that have been created. 
After discussing my project with my professor, I was excited that my proposal was accepted, so I could move forward in the process. 

Creating a unique proposal was simple due to the fact that no one had previously created any digital projects based on Midnight Sun, since the novel was just released three months ago.  

Next, I researched scholarly projects from the Digital Humanities field in order to see the different projects that I could compare to mine. 
Due to the fact that Midnight Sun is so new, there were no recently created projects. 
Since I am creating a mapping project based on a novel, I decided to look at previously created mapping projects based on Charles Dickens and Sherlock Holmes in order to see what elements compared to my project and how I could make mine different. 
Instead of just a focus on one perspective, I will focus on both the perspectives of Bella and Edward which will allow me to compare the similarities and differences between two characters instead of just focusing on one. 

At first, it was difficult to find the types of sources that I could use to compare to mine; however, after going to office hours, I received clarification on how to properly search for sources which made further research less difficult. 

After my proposal acceptance, I needed to create an Environmental Scan. 
Initially, I thought the environmental scan was about the impact it had on the environment; however, it’s more the effect your project has on the field of Digital Humanities and how my project is unique compared to previously created mapping projects.

I struggled with my environmental scan at first because it was too descriptive of how my project would work, much like a grant narrative. 
After revising, I was able to change my focus of how my project compared to past created mapping projects, rather than an explanation of how my mapping project would function.

I look forward to creating a grant narrative, the next step when creating a grant, because I get to provide detail of how my project will work and function to outside users. 
I never thought I would enjoy the process of creating a grant; however, after working through the process, I found that I enjoyed researching similar projects and what I could do that would make my project unique. 

Although creating a Grant is relatively new to me, I have been able to acquire knowledge through the necessary parts of creating a proper grant which will help to advance my career as an English major by providing me further insight to the field. 

This process has taught me how to provide critical analysis from scholarly sources that I have researched through databases, as well as having a confident tone in order to create further interest from outside readers and publicity for my grant project. 
